.backlog/tasks/task-100.8 - Add-documentation-and-examples.md, before:

---
id: task-100.8
title: Add documentation and examples
status: To Do
assignee: []
created_date: '2025-06-22'
labels: []
dependencies:
  - task-100.1
  - task-100.2
  - task-100.3
  - task-100.4
  - task-100.5
  - task-100.6
  - task-100.7
parent_task_id: task-100
---

## Description

Document web UI usage and development setup. Comprehensive documentation is essential for users to understand and effectively use the new web interface.

## Documentation Structure

### 1. README.md Updates

Add comprehensive web interface documentation including:

**README.md Updates:**
- New "Web Interface" section after CLI commands
- Command usage examples with all options
- Feature list highlighting key capabilities
- Screenshots showing main interface views

**Content Requirements:**
- Clear command examples for different use cases
- Feature descriptions from user perspective
- Visual documentation with screenshots
- Setup and troubleshooting guidance

### 2. Development Guide Requirements

**Create comprehensive development documentation:**
- Prerequisites and setup instructions
- Architecture overview with tech stack
- Project structure explanation
- Component development guidelines
- API integration patterns
- Build and deployment instructions

**Content Should Cover:**
- Development environment setup
- Adding new shadcn/ui components
- Custom hook creation patterns
- API client usage
- Testing strategies
- Build optimization

### 3. API Documentation Requirements

**Create complete API reference documentation:**
- Base URL and authentication information
- All endpoint specifications with examples
- Request/response format documentation
- Error handling and status codes
- Example requests and responses for each endpoint

**API Documentation Should Include:**
- Task CRUD operations (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE)
- Board data endpoint
- Configuration endpoint
- Query parameter options
- Error response formats
- Status code meanings

### 4. Troubleshooting Guide

Include common issues and solutions:

- Port already in use
- Browser doesn't open automatically
- Assets not loading in production
- CORS errors during development
- Performance optimization tips

### 5. Example Workflows

Document common use cases:
- Setting up a new project with web UI
- Customizing the board layout
- Integrating with CI/CD
- Running on a remote server

## Acceptance Criteria

- [ ] README updated with serve command docs
- [ ] Development setup guide created
- [ ] Screenshots of web UI included
- [ ] API documentation complete
- [ ] Troubleshooting section added

Commit message:

Add tasks for Web UI for Backlog.md

.backlog/tasks/task-100.8 - Add-documentation-and-examples.md, after:

---
id: task-100.8
title: Add documentation and examples
status: To Do
assignee: []
created_date: '2025-06-22'
labels: []
dependencies:
  - task-100.1
  - task-100.2
  - task-100.3
  - task-100.4
  - task-100.5
  - task-100.6
  - task-100.7
parent_task_id: task-100
---

## Description

Document web UI usage and development setup. Comprehensive documentation is essential for users to understand and effectively use the new web interface.

## Documentation Structure

### 1. README.md Updates

Add comprehensive web interface documentation including:

**README.md Updates:**

- New "Web Interface" section after CLI commands
- Command usage examples with all options
- Feature list highlighting key capabilities
- Screenshots showing main interface views

**Content Requirements:**

- Clear command examples for different use cases
- Feature descriptions from user perspective
- Visual documentation with screenshots
- Setup and troubleshooting guidance

### 2. Development Guide Requirements

**Create comprehensive development documentation:**

- Prerequisites and setup instructions
- Architecture overview with tech stack
- Project structure explanation
- Component development guidelines
- API integration patterns
- Build and deployment instructions

**Content Should Cover:**

- Development environment setup
- Adding new shadcn/ui components
- Custom hook creation patterns
- API client usage
- Testing strategies
- Build optimization

### 3. API Documentation Requirements

**Create complete API reference documentation:**

- Base URL and authentication information
- All endpoint specifications with examples
- Request/response format documentation
- Error handling and status codes
- Example requests and responses for each endpoint

**API Documentation Should Include:**

- Task CRUD operations (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE)
- Board data endpoint
- Configuration endpoint
- Query parameter options
- Error response formats
- Status code meanings

### 4. Troubleshooting Guide

Include common issues and solutions:

- Port already in use
- Browser doesn't open automatically
- Assets not loading in production
- CORS errors during development
- Performance optimization tips

### 5. Example Workflows

Document common use cases:

- Managing tasks through the web interface
- Customizing the board layout and status columns
- Using web UI alongside CLI workflow
- Running server on a remote host for team access

## Acceptance Criteria

- [ ] README updated with serve command docs
- [ ] Development setup guide created
- [ ] Screenshots of web UI included
- [ ] API documentation complete
- [ ] Troubleshooting section added
